In this video you'll build
your own transformer
decoder model,
which is also known as GPT2.
Once you know attention,
it's a fairly simple model
as you'll see, so let's dive in.
In this video, you'll see
the basic structure of
a transformer decoder.
I'll show you the definition of
a transformer and how to
implement the decoder and
the feed forward blocks.
On the left you can see
a picture of the
transformer decoder.
As input, it gets a
tokenized sentence.
A vector of integers as usual.
The sentence gets embedded
with word embeddings which
you know quite well by now.
Then you add to
these embeddings the
information about positions.
This information is nothing else
than learned vectors
representing 1,
2, 3 and so on up to
some maximum length that
we'll put into the model.
The embedding of
the first word will
get added with the
vector representing one.
The embedding of the
second word with
the vector representing
two, and so on.
Now this constitutes the inputs
for the first multi-headed
attention layer.
After the attention layer,
you have a feet-forward layer
which operates on each
position independently.
After each attention
and feet-forward layer,
you put a residual
or skip connection.
Just add the input
of that layer to
its output and then perform
layer normalization.
The attention and
feet-forward layers
are repeated N times.
The original model
started with N=6,
but now transformers go
up to 100 or even more.
Then you have a final
dense layer for
output and a softmax
layer, and that's it.
Now, don't worry if you
didn't catch it all at once.
We'll go through the structure
again and with code to
explain all the detail.
Here you'll see the core
of the transformer model.
It has three layers
at the beginning.
Then the shift right,
just introduces the start token,
which your model will use
to predict the next word,
you have the embedding which
trains a word to
vector embedding.
Positional encoding which
trains the vectors for one,
two and so on, as
explained before.
If the input to the model was
tensor of shape a
batch by length,
then after the embedding layer,
it will be a tensor of
shape batch by
length by the model.
Where the model is the
size of these embeddings,
and they usually
go to 512, 1,024.
Nowadays, up to 10K or more.
After these early layers,
you'll get N decoder blocks.
Then a fully
connected layer that
outputs tensors
of shape batch by
length by vocab size
and a lock softmax for
cross-entropy loss.
Let's see how the
decoder block is built.
It starts with a set of
vectors as an input sequence
which are added to
the corresponding
positional coding vectors,
producing the so-called
positional input embedding.
After embedding,
the input sequence
passes through a multi-headed
attention model.
While this model
processes each word,
each position in
the input sequence,
the attention itself
searches other positions in
the sequence to help
identify relationships.
Each of the words in the
sequence is weighted.
Then in each layer of attention,
there is a residual connection
around it followed by
a layer normalization
step to speed up
the training and significantly
reduce the overall
processing time.
Then each word is passed
through a feed-forward layer
that is embeddings are fed
into a neural network.
Then you have a drop out at
the end as a form
of regularization.
Next, a layer normalization
step is repeated, N times.
Finally, the decoder
layer output is obtained.
After mechanism and the
normalization step,
some non linear transformations
are introduced by including
fully connected
feed forward layers
with simple but non linear
low activation functions.
For each inputs and
you have shared parameters
for efficiency.
The feed forward neural
network output vectors will
essentially replace
the hidden states
of the original RNN decoder.
Let us recap what you
have seen in this video.
You saw the building
blocks used to
implement a transformer decoder.
You saw that it
has three layers.
It also has a module to
calculates a lock softmax,
which makes use of the
cross-entropy loss.
You also saw the decoder
and the feet forward loss.
You have now built your own
first transformer model.
Congratulations.
Wouldn't it be nice
to see it in action?